So, how can we benefit from knowing that Jehovah sees all the good that we do?
Our friends, our workmates and family, they see some of the good that we do.
But no friend relative or even mate can see all the good that we do, but Jehovah does.
Say when we defend a friend who isn't there to defend themselves or we resisted
temptation or our prayers for others that only Jehovah knows about.
Unfortunately, we don't have to report every good deed to Jehovah, where list in our prayers
at night, here's all the good things that we did that day, we're content with knowing
that Jehovah saw them all and was pleased with us.
Jesus was content with knowing that Jehovah saw and was pleased with what He was doing.
If we look at John 8 and verse 29, he says, and the one who sent me is with me, he did
not abandon me to myself because I always do the things pleasing to him.
So Jesus knew that He was not alone in seeing the good things that He was doing.
Even if He was falsely accused or as a poser's light about Him, He knew that He was doing
the things that we're pleasing to Jehovah.
What lesson is there for us in that?
It's very comforting.
Jehovah sees all the good that we do and nothing good that we do is missed by Him.
Well, how can knowing that Jehovah sees all the good that we do help us when we're falsely
accused?
This is what you said, no, I didn't say that.
I just wish He had a recording or He could go back in time.
But sometimes, of course, it doesn't make a difference no matter what you say.
You think of how Maphibosheth may have felt when slandered by Zyba to King David.
Do you think Maphibosheth wished He had an eyewitness or a recording?
You know, to kind of illustrate the power of an eyewitness, I want you to imagine a traffic
accident.
You're just sitting at a stop sign and another car comes around the corner and runs
right into you.
Now when the police come, shockingly, the person who ran into you says, you ran into them
and the police believe them.
You take the matter to court.
The judge listens as the other person testifies in detail how you ran into them.
But before you can say anything, the judge says, no, that is not what happened.
I was walking on the sidewalk that day and I saw the whole thing.
Now who would imagine that the judge in your case actually was an eyewitness?
You say to yourself, well, if I had known that, I wouldn't have been so worried about what
was going to happen in court today.
Now while it's extremely unlikely that you're going to go to court and the judge is going
to be an eyewitness for you, but this does illustrate the peace of mind that we can have
in knowing that Jehovah is an eyewitness to all that happens.
So the lesson for us, when we're falsely accused, it is of great comfort for us to know that
Jehovah was there that day and saw the whole thing.
Now knowing that Jehovah sees all the good that we do can also help us avoid putting on a
pretense.
Jehovah is not fooled by people who do good deeds just to be seen by others.
The Pharisees of Jesus' day, they just loved to put on a pretense of righteousness.
And Jesus tells an illustration that really exemplified that point.
If we go to Luke chapter 18 and verses 9 through 14, that's Luke 18 verses 9 through 14.
As he also told this illustration to some who trusted in their own righteousness and who
considered others as nothing, two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee
and the other a tax collector.
The Pharisees stood and began to pray these things to himself, oh God, I thank you that
I'm not like everyone else, extortioners and unrighteous and adulterers, or even like
this tax collector.
I fast twice a week, I give the tenth of all things I acquire.
But the tax collector, standing at a distance, was not willing even to raise his eyes
heavenward, but kept beating his chest saying, oh God, be gracious to me, a sinner.
I tell you, this man went down to his home and proved more righteous than that Pharisee,
because everyone who exalts himself will be humiliated, but whoever humbles himself
will be exalted.
So the Pharisee was trying to impress Jehovah with listing all of his so-called good deeds.
And it's true, Jehovah sees all the good that we do, but he also sees the motive behind
it.
We never want to fool ourselves that simply doing good things that others can see does
not hide who we really are from Jehovah.
So the lesson for us is the good things that we do are because we love Jehovah, not because
we want praise or credit from others.
Knowing that Jehovah sees all the good that we do also makes us comfortable with Jehovah
as our judge, we're all going to be judged by Jehovah.
Eventually, we'll all be judged as either worthy of life or judged as worthy of death.
While comforting it is to know that Jehovah, the one who's going to make that life or
death decision is someone who knows everything about us.
Like that judge we mentioned in the illustration earlier, you didn't even have to testify.
The judge already knew exactly what had happened.
Have you ever thought after someone compliments you or says you're great or you did something
wonderful?
You think to yourself, yeah, but you really don't know me that well.
On the other hand, there are people who know you really well.
They've known you for many years.
They've been through some good times and some bad times with you, yet they still love
you.
And you think to yourself, wow, with all they know about me and all that we've been through,
they still love me.
That's amazing.
Jehovah knows everything about us.
Even if we've made mistakes or sins, if we repent and we continue to try to do what
is right, he still loves us.
Now I have no doubt that as you take some time to meditate on our texts for today, you
could come up with many more lessons to apply in our day-to-day lives by knowing that
Jehovah is watching and seeing all the good that we do.
He knows we read earlier, Jesus said that Jehovah had not left him to himself.
And Jehovah has not left us to ourselves.
He is with us, he sees us, he knows us, and he loves us for all the good that we do.